Experimenting with Meterpreter
We can retrieve a list of all
modules and commands
built-in to Metepreter with
the help command.
The best way to get to know the features
of Meterpreter is to test them out.
Let’s start with a few simple
commands such as sysinfo,
and getuid.
These commands provide us with information
about the target computer,
operating system, and
the current user.
Next, let’s try some
uploads and downloads
using the built-in “upload”
and “download” commands.
Take note that, due to shell escaping,
we must use two "\\" characters
for the destination path:
The download command
uses a similar syntax.
We can navigate the filesystem
with the pwd, ls, and cd commands.
Even though the commands have the
same naming as those used on Linux,
they work, through the Meterpreter,
on Windows hosts as well.
We can launch a shell with the
aptly-named shell command.
The advantage of this built-in
shell is its persistence.
If for some reason, our shell
should die or hang,
we can regain control of the session.
For example, let’s hang a meterpreter
shell with an interactive command.
Although this shell is hung, we
can exit with control-C
to return to the Meterpreter session.
Then we can re-spawn a
shell in a new channel.
While applications can be executed
from within the command prompt
opened with the shell command,
there are also built-in
meterpreter commands we can use.
For example, the execute
command launches an application,
ps lists all running processes,
and kill terminates a given process.
While the meterpreter payload is
the signature payload of Metasploit
and includes many great features,
it is not the only payload available.
There are other payloads that have
use cases in specific situations like
“vncinject for windows”, which is a
payload used to create a VNC
graphical connection, or “reverse php”,
which is a reverse shell
written entirely in PHP
that can be used to exploit a
PHP web application.